# C++ Source Code Binding Generator for QIF 3.0 - by Tom Kramer

These C++ bindings use software written by Tom Kramer to generate C++ code that can read and write QIF 3.0. 

This directory contains: 

* a LICENSE file
* an empty bin directory
* a data directory with 28 sample instance files conforming to the QIF 3.0 XML schema model
* an empty ofiles directory
* a schema directory with the original QIF 3.0 schema files (names end in "Orig") and the schema files from which code was generated. The schemaChanges file that is included describes the changes.
* a source directory. The README file in the source directory explains where all the files came from. It also explains the three different approaches that may be used for programming with the code.
* a Makefile for a Linux or similar system.

To generate the executables, you will need to have boost_regex installed. Once that is installed, edit the `-L/usr/lib -lboost_regex"` at four places in the Makefile to refer to your boost_regex.

Four executable files may be made. To make them (in your Linux-like system), in this directory give the commands:

```
make bin/QIFDocumentParser
make bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlg
make bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlgAuto
make bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlgNoDup
```

The first and third of those may take a while to finish.

After those commands run, the bin and ofiles directories will no longer be empty, and the files libqif.a and libqifNoDest.a will be in the QIF3.0DocumentBundle2020Jun8 directory.

To check that your QIFDocumentParser is working, go into the data directory and give the command

```
../bin/QIFDocumentParser <filename>

```

where `<filename>` is the name of any file in the directory. An identical file will be printed out with an identical name, except a "1" suffix is added. The `QIFDocumentParser` may be used to check any file for conformance to the QIF 3.0 model.

The commands bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlg, bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlgAuto, and bin/QIF_CPlusPlusDlgNoDup may be run from the
QIF3.0DocumentBundle2020Jun8 directory. Each of them prints the same testCpp30.qif file, which is nearly identical to the files generated by the other three apps (with different line endings).

It should be straightforward to compile the code in non-Linux-like systems.

This code is provided by the Digital Metrology Standards Consortium (DMSC). Except as noted in the xmlSchemaInstance.cc and xmlSchemaInstance.hh files, the copyright to all code files belongs to the Digital Metrology Standards
Consortium.

ALL OF THE CODE IS SUBJECT TO THE DMSC LICENSE FOUND IN THE LICENSE FILE
(which is the Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003).